Shell's value is at 1DA7E (FF2us 1.0 with header).


Spells that only target all allies or all enemies are the types that avoid split damage altogether.

Ninja attack spells, Comet (Flare is not since targeting is forced by the Twin command), and a number of enemy attack spells.

Even the Cure/Healing Staff magic is part of this as well.

The enemy spells include:
ColdMist (Mist Dragon's monster attack)
Explode (Mombomb attack)
Poison (Dr. Lugae's attack, as useless as that is)
Big Bang (it explains a lot)
Pollen (plant enemies use this)
Fission (Last Arm's suicide attack)
Heal (Golbez uses this "hidden attack" to simulate Rydia healing the party)
All the HP based attacks (those that use the enemy's current HP or the target's max HP)
Quake (enemy's version)
Emission (Red Giant's attack, FF2US name)
Heat Ray (Red Dragon's attack)
Odin (Odin summon monster battle attack)
MegaNuke (Bahamut's attack)


Lv-based spells
----------------------------
Here's the list:
Sleep (it is most apparent via the Slumber Sword)
Hold
Pin
Weak/Tornado
Odin - only spell to be powered solely by level, since the "Summon" or Wisdom part of the spell has a hit rate of 0%


life2
----------------------------
1) Even though Break/Stone kills the enemy, it's current status is retained and thus Life2 refuses to work.

2) Most enemies tend to continue their battle script, but they tend to "counter" you with their spell counter 
script upon revival.

3) My only guess is to why Life2 works is that there is no discernable equivalent enemy Vitality/Stamina stat to derive the 
HP for the enemy revival, thus it failing hard. Life2 revives the enemy to maximum HP (though, it is untested at higher HP threasholds...)

4) It may simply be the high defense at work, but reviving Flan/Pudding monsters seem to prevent even high physical
powered attacks (including Jump)  to do any decent damage on the revived monster. Something goes screwy in the battle 
engine to keep the monster becoming nearly invulnerable to physical attacks. Killing another monster or kill the 
revived pudding/flan monster with magic will fix this behavior.

5) Note that Life2 works different from the monster's "Call/Summon/Alert", since monsters generated by the latter 
tends to have all statuses removed, whereas Life2 does not do that (which make sense, but it's an interesting 
distinction worth noting). So, you can see revived toad, piggy, and/or small monsters be revived by this method... 
keeping them in a continuously harmless state.


Life2 restores the HP by setting the current HP to the maximum HP, so it should work for all HP levels. Note that this 
trick would also work for spell #AB (Recover) and #AC (Remedy), since they do the same type of HP restore. (Not to 
mention it's what enemies use to revive other enemies.)


Weapon-Based Spells
--------------------------------
Anyways, onto the data.. I will also list what the number could be stored internally is pretty much in the 
range for (Spell Power * 4 to Spell Power * 4 + 3). You can derive the damage if you attack Imps/Goblins 
with the magic (Imps/Goblins have 0 magic defense). I will provide some notes to what you see on the screen... 
although very few weapons exhibit special effects.

All Status Inducing Equipment = 255 or 0 (I dunno what value is stored)
Rod = 1
Note: Attack image is of a "grey fist attack".
Ice Rod = 2
Flame Rod = 3
Thunder Rod = 4
Stardust Rod = 7
Lilith Rod = 8
Cure Staff = 2
Note: Cure Staff healing is split like a Summon spell... it uses the base and multiplies it against the 
      "modified" and weaker Cure spell..
randomized for each target.
Flame Spear = 4
Blizzard Spear = 4
White/Holy Spear = 2
Dancing Knife = 8
Note: Think Rod animation, but replace fists with knives.
Poison Axe = 0
Earth Hammer = 1
FF4A only
Asura's Rod = 2
Thor's Hammer = 7
Triton's Dagger = 7


I tested the Slumber Sword while on level 99, and it works essentially all the time. When I remember using it at 
lower levels, it didn't consistantly work... and it got me thinking...

Ever wonder why Hold and Sleep doesn't work when you cast it on yourself? Ever wonder why the Sleep or Paralysis 
status don't quite work that well unless you have really high levels?

Onto the facts:

Sleep's effectiveness is based on level, like Odin is. The magic version has an additional hassle of being 
Wisdom based (it is very important for multitargeting the spell). The Slumber Sword does not need Wisdom to power it.

The exception here is that the GBA version has Slumber Sword's Sleep magic behave more like the Apparition/Change 
Rod (the status change works all the time, barring immunity).

Paralysis's effectiveness is also based on level. The magical versions (Pin, Hold) with the appropriate stat powering 
them can be boosted, but it is not as significant since it is single targeted.

Both status effects render a target temporarily useless.. but only level and Will/Spirit (for speeding up the timer) as 
far as I can tell are the way to combat this. Stop is significantly more effective anyways. Ever try to use the 
Slumber Sword against yourselves? It's pathetic. Ever try to inflict Sleep status with the Catclaw or Paralysis with a 
Whip on your own guys? It barely works. The D. Fossil (FF2US name) that attacks with paralysis barely paralyzes you. 
The only monster close to inflicting paralysis successfully is the King-Ryu (FF2US name).. and that goes away when you 
level up more.

So, there's your status analysis.

One other thing, Sleep doesn't always hit every target. That in itself made this worthy of being researched in the 
first place.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Deathlike2)
If you cast Reflect on monsters that cast Protect or Shell on themselves, the spell will not reflect back onto you.

Notably, this includes Gird and Reflect as well (you can't boost a monster's defense this way.

On the other hand, it doesn't change the fact that Protect, Shell, and Chant will boost the enemy's stats when they are repelled by Reflect.