                                Petrification
SNES Version:

There are 3 officially listed states, but 1 state has 2 different visuals..
which seems to be linked to a timer of sorts.

1/3 Stone = Stiff (FF2 erroneously wrote it off as a Dummied status, which it
simply is not) The area around the character's feet are in a stone color
(grey/silver).

2/3 Stone = Petrify There are two forms of this:
  * If gradual petrification is unhealed by this point, the petrification
    reaches most of the body, up to eye level. This is only seen under this
    circumstance as another gradual pertification hit advances a bit
    further...
  * When gradual petrification is inflicted for a second time or gradual
    pertrification has progressed further, the character's entire body is
    covered in the stone color.

Stone = effectively Death status without having HP loss. It needs no real
explanation as it is the final status caused by another hit of gradual
petrification (while in Petrify status), or the timer for gradual
petrification has completed.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GBA Version:

When gradual petrification is set, you don't get any useful info from the
battle status area. You will see "grey paralysis" surrounding the character.

Further hits from the attack seems to move the timer forward, such as moving
from 1/3 Stone to 2/3 Stone, but there's no clear indication of its
progression.

There probably is just one timer that this status is based on (for both
versions) and the starting point is different for 2/3 stone (at least in
terms of this game, anyways).

The gradual petrification timer seems to be dependant on the character's
Vitality/Stamina as having more of it reduces the progression/timer (works
very much like Poison status's timer).

The major difference between the SNES and GBA version is primarily on how the
timer is altered. The SNES version changes the status involved and sets
(resets?) the timer as appropriate. The GBA version seems to move the timer
along.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bugs (only available in the SNES version):
Gradual petrification is fucked when Stop is in use. It probably shares the
same timer with Stop. When Stop status has ended, the timer either doesn't
restart or isn't set anymore, which is similar to what happens with Paralysis
and Sleep. The game will behave strangely and has a good chance of freezing
when this is used on the enemies.

If gradual petrification was set on all characters (an unlikely situation
since the Stone Gaze attack isn't multitargetable by default), the middle
character (slot 1) has a good chance of evading petrification due to some
coding blunder. That character's timer seems to have expired, but has failed
to set the Stone status, so the character stays in virtual-Petrify status for
the duration of the battle. Inflicting gradual petrification on the character
still inflicts Stone status.
-For the enemies, a higher MaxHP slows down the timer (which is the enemy's
equivalent of the Vitality/Stamina stat).

online stats
